Project Requirements Document:

Project Title: Solana Airdrop Platform

Introduction

Project Overview:

Santa Drops is a web3 airdrop platform in solana, ethereum, bnb, bitcoin, Litecoin, and polygon, 
Santa Drops aims to create product where communities or personal can create Giveaway's or any web3 product 
like Tokens, Nft's or coins(eth,bnb,btc,sol,matic,ltc, and 
This product aims to provide a platform to communities or individuals to giveaway's a web3 product 
and people can participate in the giveaway and get a chance to win the product.
For instance, "A platform that allows communities to create and participate in Solana-based airdrops."

Objectives:

Specific goals of the project, such as "To enable easy creation of Giveaway's of web3 products from a individual to community publically, 
facilitate community engagement, and Super-Admin have access over the platform and can also decide a winner in that giveaway"

Functional Requirements

User Registration/Login:

People can use various wallets, like Metamask, phantom, and other wallets where user can connect and authenticate using their wallet
Integration with blockchain wallets, and authentication done by wallets (e.g., Phantom, Sollet).

Airdrop Creation:

Allow community managers or any Individual user to create a Giveaway and publish it on our platform.
Options to set airdrop parameters (id, Giveaway name, description, type, amount, Message, Participation criteria (Must follow on Twitter/must join Discord server), set participation fee) and a dashboard to manage them or create more .

Wallet Connection:

Users can connect their Wallets to participate in airdrops, 
and also add all possible wallets mentioned to make sure user can have access to various wallet options to connect and participate accordingly.

Airdrop Participation:

User see all the Airdrops active in the home screen, accordingly arraged in its category of blockchain.
go to the airdrop detail page, 
check out all the details of Giveaway as submitted by giveaway creator.
to participate check the wallet is connect, if auth-done then continue with the eligibility criteria(twitter follow and discord join) if there, and transaction of participation(set by Giveaway Creator) + Platform fee and confirm the participation of user once transaction is completed
user can also see all the Giveaway participated by him (his wallet) and can also remove participation from any participated giveaway
can check their remaining time for the Giveaway, and also after time, check the winner of giveaway's as well
can also check their wallet balances and the connected wallets


Random Selection Algorithm or Winner can be chosed by SuperAdmin:

one user wallet, which is specified as super-admin user on the platform can also specify the winner of the airdrop, once the airdrop is live
and if the super-admin didn't allot the winner, then the random selection of the winner happens, and the winner is announced

Notifications:

Automated notifications for airdrop start/end, winner announcements, 
Browser based notification as well when user is off-site, 
notifications through platform when user in on-site as the actions taken by the user are confirmed by Platform Internal notification on the Page Itself.

Non-Functional Requirements

Performance:

Response time expectations, load handling capabilities, Completely Professional ThemeUI, error reporting capabilites, issue trackers, Image Optimised, Error and resistance free Platform.

Security:

Security measures for user and Platform data and wallet transactions.
Data-Flow and data-Storage cache and audit requirements.

Scalability:

The ability to handle a growing number of users and airdrops/Giveaway's, 
also develop the platform in a way where further we can add feaures features like 
staking, 
complex giveaway's like private giveaway's and so on, 
Daily claims and so on.


Usability:

User-friendly interface, accessibility considerations, professional optimal code and theme based UI

Technical Requirements

Blockchain Technology:

connection of MultiChain Wallets, auth from wallets, 
participation transaction to Super-Admin Wallet (While Creating Giveaway), 
create giveaway transaction of transfer the Giveaway product to Super-admin wallet 
once the giveaway is completed, the giveaway products will be automatically transferred to the winner.


Frontend:

Technology stack (Next.js with required packages for any purposes).
Responsive design principles. User friendly UI and components, Professional Looks

Backend:

Server technology (Node.js, Express.js).
Database management (e.g., PostgreSQL, MongoDB).

APIs:

Integration with all listed blockchain APIs.
Any external services or data sources.

Hosting/Deployment:

Hosting solutions (Not yet Confirmed).
Continuous integration and deployment strategies.

Design Requirements

UI/UX Design:

Wireframes or mockups of key pages will be provided in figma or Images
Design theme and branding guidelines, can be followed according to the santa theme

Compliance and Regulations

Legal Compliance:

Adherence to relevant cryptocurrency regulations.
Data protection laws (e.g., GDPR).
Timeline and Milestones for further features will be added to the platform

Development Phases:

Breakdown of project into phases

planning, 
development, 
testing,
and cycles continues to planning for further features

Key Milestones:

easy understanding of code with brief comments of Workflow of the code and well documented
simple and themed, easy accessibility in UI
Error/Issues or bugs less product
optimal code and functionality

Budget

Cost Estimates:

Breakdown of costs development and hosting.

Risk Management

Potential Risks:

Identification of possible project risks (technical, financial, operational).

Mitigation Strategies:

Plans to address and manage these risks.
Appendix

Additional Resources:

Any questions regarding this project, technically, logically throughout the project and its developement and workflow can we asked to me.
